---
layout: post
permalink: http://blog.stangroome.com/?p=141
title: Detached
description: None
date: 2005-12-18 16:30:28 -0000
last_modified_at: 2005-12-18 16:30:28 -0000
publish: false
pin: false
categories:
- Uncategorized
tags: []
---
For the last few weeks I have been frustrated by Outlook 2003 on both my home and work PCs. I send and receive many files as email attachments but this has become increasingly difficult recently.  
  
When receiving multiple attachments in a single message, I usually highlight them all, then drag them from Outlook and drop them into a folder in Explorer, but this now fails without any files appearing in the folder or any error messages popping up. However, using Outlook's Save Attachments menu item still works.  
  
I also find it convenient to right-click a file in Explorer and select Mail Recipient from the Send To menu but when I send the message it produces an error with the text "The operation failed due to network or other communications problems". Using the Insert File menu item in Outlook works fine though.  
  
I decided to Google the error message above but most results from the Microsoft knowledge base and various forums were related to very different problems with Outlook 2000. I tried several variations on the search keywords and eventually found some minor references on a forum to SQL Server 2005 possibly being involved.  
  
I tried including "sql server" in my searches and I still could not find anything on Microsoft's website but I found some better results in Google Groups. Apparently, in some situations, the installation or uninstallation of SQL Server 2005 or the .NET Framework 2.0 can cause the registry entries for OLE32.DLL to become damaged.  
  
I remembered that my problems with Outlook started at about the same time Visual Studio 2005 Professional was installed on both my home and work PCs. I decided to try to repair the registry entries for OLE32.DLL by running "regsvr32 ole32.dll" from the command line as suggested by one of the forums. I am now very pleased that Outlook is behaving as it should.  
  
I'm not positive that Visual Studio was responsible for the OLE problem but it is quite a coincidence and maybe someone else will be able to definitively prove what caused the problem. Until then, this post should help others fix their Outlook if they experience the same symptoms and maybe Microsoft will eventually add an official article to their knowledge base.  
